//Today i started studying Adnvanced operating System .
As my mid sems are coming so in fundamental part i'll be posting my daily studies of subjects //




OS is a program which acts as an interface between the user and the computer and provides an environment in which a user can execute programs.
OS provides convenience for the user. And secondary goal is efficient operation of the computer system.
buffering act as. Temporary data storer. This is a main memory. Use to store and hold the data temporarily that is being transmitted either between two devices or between a device or an application.
Spooling is a large buffer from hard disk. Spooling can process data at remote sites. Spooling keeps both CPU and input output device to work at much higher rates.
types of os . There are multi programmed batch  operating system or multi programming operating system.
 // Multiprogramming oprating syatem
for basics. multi programs resides in memory. 
Multi Programming is a technique for running several programs at a time using time sharing. 
CPU is never idle in multi programming operating system.
in multiprogramming operating system. CPU can execute only one program. But can solve input output operation needs of others at the same time.


// Multitasking 
multitasking is a logical extension of multi programming. 
Here the switching between jobs occur so frequently that the user can interact with each program while it is running. 
provide direct communication between user and system. 
Job is swept in and out of memory to the disk. Example. Communication satellite and bank.



//multithreading. This ability of OS to execute different parts of the same program simultaneously.
multithreading extends the concept of multitasking into applications. It divides specific operations within a single application into individual threads.
multithreading. This allow very fast communication among threads. Threads are also easier to create. Then process since they don't require a separate address space.
